All right, welcome, everyone,
to our second session
on Core Image today,
and we'll be talking about some
more advanced techniques for how
to get the best performance out
of Core Image and some advanced
workflows using AV Foundation and
using OpenGL and for games as well.
Let me give you a brief outline
of what we're talking about today.
I'll just do a quick summary for those
of you who weren't in the preceding
session to introduce you to Core Image,
and then I'll pass the
stage over to Chendi,
who will be giving an overview of
what's new in iOS 6 for Core Image.
So, first off, again,
for those of you who weren't
in our session earlier,
this is just a little bit of a review.
What is the key concept of Core Image?
The idea behind Core Image is that
you can chain together multiple
filters in an image processing
framework that's very easy to use.
very easy to use and develop.
Simple example of that is we have
an original image and we want to
apply multiple filters to that image.
For example,
applying a sepia tone image effect to it,
then a hue adjustment effect,
and then a contrast adjustment effect.
Even though we've used
just three filters here,
we can combine these in very unique ways.
One thing that we do to get
the best possible formance is,
even though you can conceptually
think of there being an intermediate
image between every filter,
Core Image will concatenate
the filter graph at runtime
so that it'll be one program.
And this greatly improves performance.
Another thing we've done in this
particular example is we've noted
the fact that two of these filters
could be represented as a matrix,
and those two matrixes can be
combined together into one effect.
One of the key concepts in
Core Image is also it's got very
flexible inputs and outputs.
In terms of inputs,
you can bring in content to
Core Image from your photo library,
from a live video capture session,
images that you may
have in memory already,
from files that are
supported via Image.io,
and also via OpenGL Textures.
And OpenGL Textures we'll be talking
about in a bit more detail this afternoon
because this is some really great
addition that we've added to Core Image.
We also support very flexible outputs,
and this is also key for getting the
best performance out of Core Image.
We, in the simplest form,
allow producing a
CG image from a CI image,
and from a CG image, you can go to many
different destinations,
like into a UI image view or
out to Image.io for exporting
different file formats,
or into the photo library.
But we also support rendering
into Eagle Contexts,
into CV pixel buffers,
which are useful for
going into AV Foundations,
and into raw bytes,
or into OpenGL textures.
And this flexibility,
both in terms of input and output,
is critical to get the best performance
out of Core Image for real-time effects.
So to talk about these performance
enhancements in much more detail,
I'm going to pass the
stage over to Chendi,
and he'll show you some great demos.
Thanks, David.
So for our first attempt
at writing this app,
we'll use AV Foundation to
stream frames from the camera.
We'll process them using Core Image.
Then we'll set them as the
URImage property on a URImageView.
And we won't be actually using
Core Image's CI context at all.
So this will be extremely easy to write.
Let's see how we do this.
So basically, we have a single view
controller with an image view,
a couple of filters that we create once.
And then in the main callback loop,
what we're going to do is basically grab
the pixel buffer from AV Foundation,
Rotate it by 90 degrees because normally
buffers come in rotated from the camera.
Zero the origin.
Pass it through our filter chain.
Grab the final image
from the final filter,
wrap that inside a UI image,
and set that on our view.
And note at the very end,
we nil out all the input image values
in our filters so they don't keep the
retain count on the CVPixel buffer,
and we don't have buffers floating
around when we should release them.
So this is a pretty simple app.
Let's see what it looks like.
All right, so this definitely looks like
the filter chain that we wanted.
But as you can probably tell,
it's running pretty slowly.
If we had instruments,
we could see that it's running
around five or six frames per second,
and this is just way too slow
for a real-time use case.
So we probably want something
a little bit faster than this.
If we go back to our slides.
Why was this approach so slow?
Well, UI image views are
optimized for static images,
and they're probably not the
best approach for streaming
real-time video with effects.
Furthermore, if we had run an
instruments trace on this,
we would have noticed that we
would have been wasting a lot of
time in CG context draw image.
So maybe UI Image View isn't
rendering this optimally.
And furthermore,
we'd see that CI contexts were
created for every single frame.
This makes sense for a static
image because you don't want
to have a CI context floating
around after your render.
But if we're rendering real-time video,
we don't want to create a
context every single frame.
This will kill our performance since
creating context is pretty expensive.
So this seems like a prime candidate
for a place where we can drop
down to a lower-level API for
more performance-sensitive work.
So for our next attempt...
We'll keep the
AV Foundation input stream.
We'll still use CI to render,
but instead of wrapping it
inside a UI image directly,
we'll create a CG image explicitly with
the createCgImage method on CI context.
And then we'll use this as this
UI image for the UI image view.
And hopefully this will
run a little bit faster.
So let's see what this looks like.
So this is largely the same code.
The only difference is in
the capture output callback.
Instead of calling URImage
image with CI image,
we'll manually invoke a render
with CI context createCgImage
and wrap that inside a UI image.
This may not look like
a lot of different code,
but let's see what it
looks like on the iPad.
This already looks a lot better.
And I think we're pretty much done,
actually, right?
Well, this is actually running around 21,
22 frames per second.
If you look in the console,
you would see a lot of
frame drop notifications,
so there's still a lot
of work to be done.
For something with a
simpler filter chain,
you might actually get
away with using a CG image,
UI image view approach, but for this app,
we still want something to
render-- we want something to
render a little bit faster.
Why is performance still
non-ideal right here?
Well,
what is going on for every single render?
We have an image in our application.
We want to use Core Image to
process it via OpenGL.
So the first thing that happens
is this image is uploaded to GL.
[Transcript missing]
And this is very non-ideal because we
had this extraneous upload/download at
the very end that hurts performance.
So what we really want
is something like this.
We'll have a texture in our app.
that we upload to OpenGL will
use Core Image to render it,
but directly to the display.
There's no need to download
it back to the CPU and upload
it to GPU one more time.
So this is something we want.
How can we implement this?
Well, for our third attempt,
let's use AV Foundation again
to stream frames,
and let's render directly
to a CA Eagle layer using
Core Image this time.
And hopefully this will give
us the performance we need.
So the code is a little more
complex in this version.
We're no longer using a URImageView.
Instead, we have a custom GLESView that
wraps around a CA Eagle layer.
And in our main loop,
instead of creating a CG image,
we're just using CI context, draw image,
in rect, from rect,
and then telling the GL ES view
to present its render buffer.
And so let's see what this
looks like on the iPad.
This actually looks worse
than the previous approach.
It looks definitely more stuttery
and looks like there's less frames
per second going on right now.
If we use instruments to trace this,
we'll see that we're getting
around 13 frames per second,
which is about 8 worse than we did
with the CG Image/URI imagery approach.
Well, if we go back to the machine,
we notice we're drawing this
image at the screen resolution.
And if you're hitting performance
bottlenecks in Core Image,
you need to realize the number
one key to Core Image performance
is the output render size.
For the first two approaches,
we had an input image of 640 by 480,
and we rendered it to a
640 by 480 destination.
And we let Core Animation scale it up
to screen resolution via UI Image View.
In this approach,
we're actually rendering it directly
to a 1024 by 768 destination.
And so we're rendering 156% more pixels
than we are in the previous two cases.
So to get comparable performance,
what we should do is not
render at screen resolution,
but 640 by 480.
and have our view scale up.
So we'll set a content
scale factor on the view
to scale up from 640x480 to 1024x768.
And this should give us
much better performance.
If we go back to the iPad,
we see this is much, much better.
But if we use instruments
again to trace this,
we're not quite there.
This is running at 28 frames per second,
which is still not ideal because, again,
the front camera on
this iPad streams at 30.
So ideally, we'd like to render at
30 frames per second.
So there's still work left to be done
to get this to be running at real time.
What can we do at this
point to go faster?
Well, we already discussed
reducing the render size,
but we can also just now disable color
management and leverage YUV image
support as ways to speed up our program.
By default,
Core Image does all its rendering
in a light linear color space
for accuracy and consistency.
This is not particularly cheap though
because converting from and to sRGB
involves these equations you see here.
And a step, pow,
mix function along with some
arithmetic can really add to your
shader complexity if you do it a lot.
So in cases where you need the absolute
highest performance in your app,
or perhaps your app does
some weird exaggerated
[Transcript missing]
New in iOS 6 is the ability to read
directly from YUV 420 textures,
or sorry, pixel buffers, natively.
Camera buffers from the
camera are natively YUV,
but most image processing
algorithms rely on RGBA data.
So we have to convert between the two,
which isn't free.
There is dedicated hardware to do
this in both the iPad and the iPhone,
but it takes some time, and additionally,
it requires more memory
for intermediate buffer.
So therefore, on iOS 6,
sometimes it may make sense to just
pass in your buffer as YUV data
and let Core Image do the two
reads from the two planes and
apply the color transform for you.
As we discussed earlier,
performance is proportional to the
number of output pixels in your render.
And now with the advent
of high DPI on Mac OS X,
You'll run into the situations
where you'll need to reduce this
image size more and more frequently.
In some applications,
you just won't be able to render
your image at full resolution without
hitting performance bottlenecks.
This is often the case in games.
Many games on the iPad with the
2048 by 1536 screen have to render
at half size or .75 size and scale
up in order to get their 30 or 60
frames per second target frame rate.
So we recommend rendering to
a smaller size and letting
Core Animation scale up very cheaply.
In iOS 6 and Mac OS X.8,
we're now deprecating CI context
draw image at point from rect.
This is because at point is ambiguous,
especially in high DPI contexts.
The preferred API now is CI Context
Draw Image in Rect from Rect.
Core Image always treats its images
with a pixel-based coordinate system for
extents and distances and radii and such.
And so the firm-rec coordinates
will always be pixel-based.
The in-rec coordinates, however,
depend on the type of
context you've created.
GL and GL ES based contexts
don't know about points,
so those will always be pixel based.
However, if you create a CI context
with a CG context on the Mac,
it will be based on points.
Be sure to double check your
code for this if you're hitting
high DPI issues while rendering.
So let's go back to the demo and try
to get our app running at 30 frames per
second with the last two modifications.
So this is the same as the previous code,
except we're going to change two things.
First of all,
we're going to have the camera stream
in its native YUV 420 bi-planar
format instead of 32-bit BGRA.
And all we have to do is
basically pass in a different
key value for this dictionary.
The second thing we're going to
do is disable color management.
We can do this by passing in KCI image
color space to be null whenever we create
the CI image from the CVA pixel buffer.
And we also have to set the
context color space to be null,
with KCI context working space to be
null when we're creating the context.
So with these changes,
let's see what the app looks like now.
And this is actually running at
30 frames per second finally.
And we're basically done.
And I'll show you some
great demos if you all .
Thanks, David.
So let's start out with the major changes
we've added to iOS 6 in Core Image.
So we're always trying to make filter
rendering faster on desktop and embedded.
But for iOS 6,
we've actually gone ahead and made the
code generation a little more optimized.
So throughout any of your code,
if you're using Core Image to render,
you should see slightly
faster rendering times.
We've also gone ahead and
fixed our OpenGL ES integration
to be a little bit nicer.
There were some quirks in iOS 5 and 5.1,
and those should be gone now in iOS 6.
And as David mentioned earlier,
we have 93 filters now.
And two of the most requested filters
were Gaussian Blur and Laneco Scaling,
and both of those are now in.
So a quick note about Gaussian Blur.
It was the most requested
filter in our bug reports,
and now it's in iOS 6.
It is multi-pass, though,
and it can be somewhat slow if you use
it on large radius blurs on large images.
So if you're trying to do, say,
a Gaussian Blur of a 50 radius on the
back camera of an iPad 3 or the new iPad,
it can probably be a little
too slow for real-time use.
and since we do have Gaussian Blur,
we have several other
filters that use it.
In iOS 6, we have CI Bloom, CI Gloom,
Unsharp Mask, and Sharpen Luminance.
And all four of these filters
use Gaussian Blur as their
internal implementation.
We also have Lanco scaling now in iOS 6.
If you've tried to use affine scaling
to downsample images in iOS 5 or 5.1,
you may have noticed bad artifacting
or an aliasing in your results.
Lanco's scale transform is
much better for downsampling,
and it's comparable with Core Graphics'
high-quality resampling mode.
But it's done on the GPU,
so it should be faster.
As an example,
I have this image here with some
high-frequency content on the ground.
I'm going to downsample it
to 10% of the original size,
and then zoom it back up so you
can see what the differences are.
So on the left is the result from
using just a CI Affine Transform,
and on the right is the new
CI Lanco Scale Transform.
And as you can see,
it's very alias on the left side
and a lot nicer on the right side.
So if you're using Core Image to do any
type of thumbnail-ing or downsampling,
you should consider using
Lanco Scale Transform instead
of Affine Transform.
All right, so for the next part,
I'm going to demonstrate how to
use Core Image to write a really
performant real-time photo or video app.
You may be aware that photo apps are
really popular now on the App Store,
and they could make you a billionaire
if you write the right one.
CPUs are really fast enough to
do complex real-time effects
on the iPad and the iPhone.
And even if you're writing a photo app,
it's nice to have live
video preview of the effect,
so having a real-time 30-frame-per-second
preview for photo app can be important.
And Core Image is ideal for this type
of real-time image processing work.
So let's say I'm on vacation and
I take this photo of my friend Groot.
It's a little too nice, I think.
The detail's too nice,
it's a little too bright.
It looks like stock photography,
in my opinion.
I want it to look a little more human,
a little more weathered,
like it's been sitting in
my wallet for 15 years.
So I want to apply a set of filters
on this image and get something
a little bit more cool looking,
something a little bit better.
So how do we get a
vintage look out of this?
Well, we'll do it in four steps.
We'll first apply a color transformation
to make it slightly more yellowish
and reduce the dynamic range.
We'll apply a vignette to make it a
little nice and dark on the edges,
add some film scratches,
and then some sort of border
so it looks nice and framed.
Using Core Image,
we can do this with four filters.
We'll start out with the CI Color Cube,
which I'll talk about more in a moment.
And this, as you can tell,
makes it slightly more
older vintage look.
Add a vignette.
We'll use CI Lighten Blend Mode with the
daguerreotype texture to give it a nice
model kind of grizzled look to the film.
And then we'll use
Source Over Compositing to
put a nice frame around this.
And this is something I am now proud
to share on Facebook with my friends.
And this is something that
really captures the moment
better than stock photography,
SLR, or camera-type image, I think.
So, before I go on,
I'd like to talk a little
bit about CI Color Cube.
As you saw in the previous talk,
it can be used for a
wide variety of effects.
It's one of our most flexible filters.
And just about any color effect
that doesn't rely on the position
of a pixel in its calculations,
only on the color,
can be approximated using CI Color Cube.
And since we implement this
with two texture reads and
a little bit of arithmetic,
it's often faster than a
pure algorithmic filter.
If you're doing some sort of, like,
polynomial approximation or some
sort of complex calculation.
And on iOS 6, we support up to a 64
by 64 by 64 color cube,
which turns out to be more than
enough for almost any effect.
So as an example,
I have CI sepia tone here on the left
and a 64 by 64 by 64 approximation
of it using CI Color Cube.
As you can probably tell,
they're pretty much the same.
We wrote CI Sepia Tone with
accuracy as the main concern.
And so if you use Color Cube,
you'll get something a little bit faster.
In most cases,
you won't actually notice the difference,
and so if you want a real-time app,
you might consider switching to
Color Cube instead of using CISepiaTone.
Even when we drop down to an 8x8x8 cube,
the results are pretty much the same.
This is because the linear approximation
we use in Color Cube is still
accurate enough to approximate the
curves in our CDI sepia tone filter.
It's only when we drop down to
2x2x2 that we get some sort of
incorrect coloring in our effect.
A 2x2x2 cube is essentially
the same as a CI color matrix,
so you could write it with that as well.
So let's try to write a
real-time CameraFX app.
And our first attempt,
we'll use AV Foundation for the input.
We'll filter it with Core Image.
And let's use the
URImageView to display it.
Instead of actually calling
CI explicitly to render,
we'll just set the URImageView's
image to be a wrapped CI image.
So let's go to the demo machine.
[Transcript missing]
Capital or?
Capital Apple?
Okay.
I can't type apparently.
Apple1234?
What is this password?
Okay.
So this is an extremely simple setup.
We'll have a single
UI image view for display,
a capture session to stream to frames.
This is all kind of boilerplate code
to stream frames from AV Foundation.
We'll set up our filters once.
In our color cube,
I've generated offline,
and I have like a--
Pre-populated table with the data.
And so the most interesting part
comes in the AV Foundation callback
in the main loop.
So what happens in every frame
is we capture the pixel buffer,
We'll create a CI image from it.
Because pixel buffers come in
from AV Foundation rotated,
we'll have to rotate it by 90
degrees and zero the origin.
We have our filter chain that we set up,
the color cube, vignette, blend,
and source over.
Finally, we'll grab the image
from the filter chain,
wrap it in a UI image,
and set it on the image view.
Note that we haven't even used
CI context yet for this implementation.
And one nice thing at the end is
we have to zero out or nil out the
input images for the filters because
otherwise they'll retain the CV pixel
buffer from the previous frame and
might cause higher memory usage.
So if we have this implementation,
let's see how it runs.
I'm going to have to use the projector,
unfortunately.
And as you can tell, this is pretty slow.
And there's some tearing as well,
which I probably have to go fix.
So this runs at maybe five
or six frames per second,
so it's definitely not good
enough for real-time work.
Why was this implementation so slow?
Well, UI Image View is optimized
for static images.
It may not be ideal for real-time video.
Furthermore, if you could actually run an
instruments trace on this,
you would see that CI context is
being created for every single frame.
This is because your image view doesn't
know when your rendering's gonna stop.
They don't wanna hold onto a
context longer than they need to.
And if you could do
another Instruments Trace,
you'd see that CG Context
Draw Image is being called a lot.
So maybe there's not the most efficient
drawing going on in the background.
In order to get something
more performant,
we should probably drop down
to our lower-level API and
try to tweak the performance.
So for our second attempt,
we'll still use
AV Foundation for the input.
We'll still use Core Image.
But instead of using UI Image View to
handle the rendering,
we'll do it ourselves by calling
CI Context Create CG Image and
set that on the Image View.
And hopefully this will
be a little bit faster.
So if I switch to the demo machine.
So this is basically the same code.
The only difference is instead of
wrapping the CI image in a UI image,
I'm manually creating a CG image
and wrapping that in a UI image.
And so this is a minor change,
and you might not think that this
would actually change things.
But if we go to the machine,
We see that this actually
runs pretty quickly.
And so we're done.
But actually,
this is not 30 frames per second.
- If we actually open up
instruments or the console,
we'll see that we actually
have frame drops in this thing.
This is running at approximately 21,
22 frames per second.
And the front camera streams
at 30 frames per second.
So this is still suboptimal.
And as a note,
everything on this-- every demo
is running on iPad 2 to highlight
the GPU differences because the
iPad 3 is a lot faster GPU-wise.
So why is performance still non-ideal?
So what is happening for every frame?
We have our input image.
We uploaded to OpenGL as a texture.
And in this case,
even though we're using the
optimal path of mapping a
CV pixel buffer to a texture,
there is still a cost
associated with that.
OpenGL then renders the
result to the render buffer.
And then when you call createCgImage,
what happens is there's a
GL readPixels callback that
brings data back to the CPU.
And then finally,
when you set that on the URI Image View,
Core Animation has to upload that
image again to the GPU for display.
And so there's a lot of extraneous
uploads and downloads here
that really hurts performance.
So what is the optimal approach?
What we'd like is just to
upload the texture once and
render directly to the display.
There's no need to read back
because we don't actually
want to save it or anything.
We just want to display it to screen.
So how do we do this?
Well, for our third attempt,
we'll use AV Foundation again.
We'll render with Core Image.
But we'll render directly to the
frame buffer of a CA Eagle layer.
And this is how most games
actually do their rendering via
OpenGL ES and CA Eagle layers.
So let's see how that works.
So this is slightly different now.
I have a GL ES view and an Eagle context.
And when I'm setting things up,
I'm actually creating a CI context,
context with Eagle Context.
That way, CI can draw to the destination
frame buffer of your
GL ES view's Eagle Context.
The main loop is pretty much the same.
We still take a CVPixel buffer,
rotate and zero the origin,
pass it through the filter chain,
except now we're drawing it to the
screen directly with the CI context
Draw Image Interact Firmware Act API.
So let's see how fast this runs.
And this is actually pretty poor.
I realize I'm blocking
the thing with my hand.
It's running at about
13 frames per second,
which is actually worse
than the previous example.
So we must be doing something wrong.
So whenever you have performance
issues in Core Image,
you have to keep in mind that performance
is tied to the render output size.
For the first two examples,
we had a 640 by 480 input image,
and we were rendering to the
same size 640 by 480 destination,
which is then upscaled to the full res,
which is 1024 by 768.
For this example,
we're actually rendering
[Transcript missing]
While they fix that,
what you would see is it would be
running at 28 frames per second
instead of 30 frames per second.
Which is still not ideal because, again,
input video runs at 30 frames per
second for the front video camera.
So this runs at around
28 frames per second.
You actually really have to go
into the console to see that
it's not performing optimally,
and there are frame drops going on.
So what can we do at this
point to improve performance?
There are three things
we can do at this point.
Well,
we talked about one of them already,
which is reducing the render size.
The other two are disabling
color management and
leveraging YUV image support,
which is new in iOS 6.
So by default,
Core Image performs all its calculations
in a light linear color space,
as David mentioned in the earlier talk.
And this provides the most accurate and
consistent results for your renders.
But this is not a cheap operation,
necessarily.
As you can see from example code,
we have a mix, pow, step function,
and some more arithmetic every
time we have to convert a pixel
from sRGB to linear RGB and back.
And so if you have a lot of
images and you're doing a lot of
these conversions back and forth,
this could really
affect your performance.
So if you absolutely need the highest
possible frame rate or performance,
and you don't really
notice the differences in
disabling color management,
for example, in Photo Booth,
if you're rendering
thermal effect or X-ray,
you probably won't notice that the
RGB values are four or five units off.
So if you don't really care
about that slight difference,
you can disable color management
and get faster rendering.
New in iOS 6 is YUV image support.
So camera buffers from the iPad and
iPhone natively come in as YUV 420.
And if you specify that
you want BGRA frames,
there is a conversion that happens.
There is a built-in hardware
chip that does this conversion,
but it's not free.
And there is a higher memory usage
involved because you have to have
another intermediate buffer at every,
for every frame.
And since most image processing
algorithms expect RGBA data,
This conversion can be kind of costly.
Well, on iOS 6 Core Image,
we can read directly from YUV pixel
buffers from the two planes and
do the color conversion ourselves.
This way, you can save on memory.
And in some cases, a lot of cases,
it's actually faster than having
the hardware convert and doing
the reads from an RGB buffer.
So be sure to test this if
you're just on the cusp of
getting your app to be real time.
And this might help your app gain maybe
like two or three frames per second.
We mentioned this earlier in the demo,
but if you're a renderer,
you've tried everything else and
your rendering is still too slow,
you might have to reduce the render
size and scale up your image.
This is something that
games actually do a lot,
especially on high DPI screens.
If you're trying to run a complex
3D game on a 2048 by 1536 screen,
chances are it's not
going to be too fast.
So what games do a lot of times is render
at half res or 1.75 res and upscale.
And you can do the same
thing with Core Image.
In our example demo,
we rendered at 640x480
for the CA Eagle layer,
and we had Core Animation scale
it up to screen size.
And Core Animation does
this extremely efficiently,
and it's essentially free.
As a side note, now that there are high
DPI screens on Mac OS and embedded,
we're deprecating CI context
draw image at point from rect.
This is because this is
a little bit ambiguous.
At point doesn't really specify the
destination size you want to render to.
Instead,
we want you to use CI context draw
image in rect from rect instead.
and as you probably know,
everything in Core Image is
pixel based for extents,
for radii, for filters, stuff like that.
So from rect in this call is
always in pixel coordinates.
But in rect can change depending on
what type of context you're creating.
Naturally,
if you're doing a GL based context,
the CGL context on desktop
or Eagle context on embedded,
GL doesn't have a concept of scale,
so it's always pixel based for in rect.
If you're using a CG context on desktop,
however, and not on iOS,
CG context do have a concept of scale.
So you want to use points for CI context,
draw image, in rect, from rect.
So this tripped up a lot of developers,
and this is something you
should keep in mind when you're
testing your app on OS X,
10.8, or iOS 6.
And so to demonstrate the
last set of techniques,
I have one final demo.
So this is the same as the previous demo
that did rendering to the Eagle context.
Instead of specifying the pixel format
to be 32 BGRA for AV Foundation,
I wanted to return the native
420 YCBCR bi-planar format.
And then when we're creating the image,
we can just pass in the
PIS buffer just like before,
except we're going to pass in an option,
CI Image Color Space to be null to
disable color management on that image.
And the last thing we need to do
is disable color management on the
context by specifying CI context,
context with Eagle context
with the option working color
space to be null as well.
And with those three options in place,
We finally have a 30 frames per
second app that renders the filter
shape we wanted in the beginning.
We started off with a really naive
implementation using UI Image View.
We got six frames per second.
We had a pretty good jump to 21 when
we just used Create CG Image explicitly
instead of having UIKit render.
And then we fell back to 13 when we
tried the first Eagle Contacts approach.
This is because we
rendered at the wrong size.
And then once we fixed that,
we got to 28.
And then by disabling color management
and enabling YUV image support,
we got to our target
30 frames per second.
For the next part,
I'll talk a little bit about
how to leverage OpenGL ES and
Core Image at the same time for some
more advanced rendering techniques.
So as you may know from
the previous example,
you can create a CI context with
a user-supplied Eagle context.
And what happens internally is
we create our own Eagle context
with the same share group.
And if you're familiar with OpenGL,
you know that if you create
one with the same share group,
you can share resources between the two.
In practice, or in theory,
this could be anything from shaders,
programs, vertex buffers, vertex arrays.
But the things we're primarily
concerned with in CI are textures
and frame buffers/render buffers.
And so using this, this
[Transcript missing]
creating CI images from textures,
which is new in iOS 6.
The API is CI Image, Image with Texture,
with options for size, flipped,
and color space.
And the texture ID you pass in
is basically just an unsigned int
that refers to that GL texture.
And so this image is only usable at
render time if that texture ID is valid.
It refers to a texture that
exists in the share group.
And the advantage of doing this is
that the texture is kept on the GPU.
There's no unnecessary downloads
and re-uploads of data here.
So Core Image can use that
texture directly and very cheaply.
And be sure that the texture data
is valid when you're rendering.
Otherwise you might
get undesired results.
We can't actually retain a GL texture,
so if you create a
CI image with a texture,
make sure you don't delete
the texture underneath this
when you're trying to use it.
And now in iOS 6,
we can also render two textures.
In iOS 5 and 5.1,
we unfortunately limited
to render buffers,
but now anything that you attach to
a frame buffer can be rendered to.
And so it's pretty easy to do this.
When you're setting up your context,
just bind a texture to the frame buffer,
call the same CI context drawImage,
indirect from rect,
and we will draw to that texture instead.
And currently, only rendering to 8-bit
RGBA textures is supported,
so you can't render to a
YUV or whatever buffer.
Because we can render to texture now,
it's advantageous to make
draw image to be asynchronous.
Calls like createCGImage, renderToBuffer,
renderToCVPixelBuffer have always
been synchronous in the past,
but this is not something
we want for GL rendering.
So in iOS 6,
we're changing it to be asynchronous.
We will only issue a GL flush after
our render and not a GL finish anymore.
If you wrote your app and you linked
against the old version of Core Image,
we'll continue to maintain
the same behavior,
but we advise you to update your
app to iOS 6 for better performance.
And when you're using textures,
rendering from or to textures,
you should keep the OpenGL ES bind
flush best practices in mind.
And basically what you need to remember
is if you have an object on context
A that you're using or modifying,
when you're done modifying it,
issue a flush,
and context B has to rebind that
object before it can see the changes.
So that's all you have to basically do.
To demonstrate this,
I'll take the basic Xcode
OpenGL ES app template.
I'll modify it slightly to use
AV Foundation to stream in frames.
And I'll use a CVOpenGL ES texture
cache to map pixel buffers to textures.
That way I can demonstrate
creating CI images from textures,
rendering it to another texture with
the new render to texture functionality,
and then just using some more
OpenGL ES shader and draw
functions to render a bunch of
cubes with that modified texture.
So I will demonstrate this real quick.
So we will make this
sample code pretty quickly,
but this is basically the OpenGL app
template that draws two rotating cubes.
What we're going to do for every
frame that we get from the camera
is grab-- use CVOpenGLESTextureCache
to grab the texture
and map it as a OpenGL texture.
Sorry, grab the buffer and map
it as an OpenGL texture.
And then in our draw function,
what we're going to do is pass
that texture in as a CI image
Again, rotate-- or sorry, in this case,
merely crop it because we want a
square texture and not 640 by 480.
And we'll have a pixelate filter
and a CI vortex distortion to
modify that image and have the
parameters change in real time.
When we're rendering,
what we need to do is save
the old framebuffer binding,
bind our texture to-- our destination
texture to this framebuffer,
call CI context to render to the texture,
Restore the old frame buffer
and then draw a bunch of cubes
with this as the new texture.
So let's see what this looks like.
This is kind of hard to see,
but I have cubes with every face has a
constantly changing vortex distortion
and a pixelate that scales up and down.
And this runs at 30 frames per second,
and I can actually add probably a
bunch more cubes since the hard work
is running to that texture once,
and the rest is a really easy
OpenGL cube drawing process
with really simple shaders.
So back to slides.
For the next part,
I'd like to invite Jacques on
stage to talk about how you can
integrate Core Image with your
game for some cool effects.
Thanks.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you, Chendi.
That's an interesting slide title there.
So I'd like to talk to you about
two of the common use cases for
Core Image Techniques in your games.
The first one that most of you
will probably try is to apply
an effect to the full screen.
This is probably the easiest for you.
Let's say you have a sprite-based game.
You just want to create a
transition or something.
It's very easy to throw
in a full screen effect.
The second one is to apply an
effect to an individual texture.
And this can really be a great way for
you to use an expensive filter as a
one-off to create a more advanced effect.
And then because you only
did it once at startup,
you can retain that sort of the
real-time aspect of your game and
still have an expensive filter.
So let's just focus on the first one,
which is to apply an
effect to the full screen.
I'm going to go over here and
demo one of those for you.
[Transcript missing]
Using some of these recipes
that Alex gave us earlier,
I'm going to take this kind of vanilla
space shooter game that I've made.
It's, you know,
it's kind of boring looking.
I already got inspired.
I added Gaussian blur as a full
screen effect so you can tell
I can no longer interact with it.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, that's kind of cool.
That kind of takes us into the game.
Now you can see, okay, there's a segue.
Game over.
Okay, that was kind of snappy.
All right,
let's try something else there.
Pixelate.
We've already tried that.
Okay, let's try Bar Swipe.
Cool.
We do the same thing.
We get into the game.
The interesting thing here is
with the full screen effect,
it's helping you add a
transition into the game that
you didn't have to do yourself.
So a lot of the times,
You might engineer your
own kind of fade to black,
fade to white, whatever.
Throw in the standard game programmer
transition because I don't want
to write the shader for it.
But you can use CI really easily with
these recipes to add a bar swipe,
apparently.
Or perhaps you can't.
Let's just try that again.
So let's go back here.
We'll try a flash
transition on the way in,
because we've all seen Pixelate.
I think this can be kind of cool.
Oh, wow, cool.
All right.
And then as I die, game over.
Truly game over.
Okay.
There you go.
That's some of the
easy things you can do.
Now, DCI filters are actually
extremely easy to do.
There are only a few lines.
I should probably go back
and turn on the slides.
Let's do that.
Okay.
So that was applying
effects to full screen.
They're very easy.
It only takes you a couple
of lines to set it up.
And then you can swap these filters out.
And you can use Quartz Composer
to test them out offline.
And then you can really hand it
over to a designer or someone
to just pick the right effect.
And once you have it set up,
just reuse it.
So let's go through how
we actually do this.
So the first one is your
standard game renders straight.
It's just geocalls that
you flush to the screen.
We just want to pipe that around
so that you go to a frame buffer,
a texture frame buffer,
and then you put that through a
filter and then to the screen.
So very simple stuff.
So the first one is there's
really four steps to this.
The first one is you
create a texture FBO.
We've gone through this.
Chendi has showed this before.
Number two is you create the
CI image to reference this FBO.
And number three is you
want to create the filter.
And it's important here that you set
the input image key to the texture.
And then fourth,
you create the context to
actually draw it to the screen.
Okay, so we'll just briefly
go through the steps.
uh...
We have OS X first.
You'll note that there's some
setup here to create the texture.
I'm sure you all know how to do that,
so I've omitted that.
You bind it, and note here,
Texture Rectangle Arb,
which is special for OS X.
It's a way to access an arbitrary
non-power-of-two texture.
Also note that there's RGBA here.
Then we just bind this
texture as a frame buffer.
And then for iOS,
there's only a tiny change,
which is that you use GL Texture 2D
because of the non-power-to-support
that's out of the box there.
Okay, so then we create the CA image.
This is very simple.
You just reference the texture,
make sure that the size is set to
the width and height of the texture,
and then of course you
don't need to flip it,
you know what's in there,
and set the color space to nil.
Next, we create the filter.
In this case, I've chosen Bloom,
which is one of these kind of
expensive Gaussian blur-based filters.
Set the defaults, set the input image.
Very easy.
Okay, then for OS X,
you then create a context that
references your current OpenGL context.
I've called it NSGLCTX here for brevity.
This is the OS X approach.
Make a note here that I've
set the working space to null,
so I'm avoiding color management.
And iOS...
Even simpler.
Same thing, just a simpler call.
Okay, so that was the first
one of the two use cases.
So let's go and focus on the second case.
So I'm going to walk over
here and show you a demo.
So some of you might have seen
this little trees concept I've been
working on in a previous session.
And here I want to focus on effects
that can be quite expensive that
you apply to a texture once in
order to create a deeper feeling.
So here I have very simple flat geometry.
There are some hand-painted textures
here and a little particle effect.
One of the things I can do here
that we can go into is with a
filter chain consisting of a random
generator that we then tone up
to just gray and a linear gradient,
we can create this ground fog
effect of this sheet that you see.
We see this gray sheet
between each layer,
so I can just apply a noise there,
and as I just move it,
we get that little sense of movement,
and we get the ground fog happening.
So that's very easy.
I only need to set that up once.
The random generator is an
infinitely repeating texture,
so it's very easy for me to set that
up once and sort of apply it wholesale.
The next step is, of course,
that these trees are very, very flat.
You can see that there's no depth
cueing on the trees whatsoever.
And so, either you could try just to blur
the whole screen or the whole layer,
but really the easiest thing here is to
take each one of these trees that I've
composited using a random generator.
So it consists of three components:
a trunk, a left branch,
and a right branch at varying heights.
I render those out to a texture.
Then I apply a Gaussian Blur filter once,
and I vary the radius depending
upon the depth of that tree.
Now you can see that
there's depth cueing here.
So as we go deeper into the scene,
the trees are blurred out,
and you get that sense of
it meshing with the fog.
So depth cueing, very easy.
It's only done once,
so now it's rendering using
that modified texture.
Then, of course,
we can go on to the next effect.
[Transcript missing]
Using CI Bloom,
I create this glow effect around it.
Of course,
I could just create this as an asset,
but it was just really easy for
me to take a circle and gloom it,
or bloom it.
And so this is something that
you can just try out and really
get there much quicker than going
back to your artist and saying,
you know, is this what you want?
No.
Okay, go back.
Oh, okay, I added some more.
Oh, is this what you want?
No.
You can just play with it.
The CI filters have input parameters
that you can play with as a programmer
to get the effect you're after.
The next one is, of course,
a film effect.
So we're using vignette
here on the whole screen.
So we're doing a full-screen
effect at the same time,
which is vignette,
and we also transform the
screen slightly to get a jitter,
a camera jitter in.
And then, of course,
we vary the luminance a little bit,
just to get that kind of
incandescent light bulb errors
that you'd get in an old projector.
And then you get the
kind of old-style effect.
And then, of course,
another full-screen filter
that we applied in the demo
earlier was a distortion.
And Chendi's shown you
a distortion earlier.
This one is a bump
distortion that you can use.
And this one can either go
into or out of the page.
In this case,
I decided to go out of the page.
And this is really easy.
Yet again, once you've set it up,
it's only a few lines to try
out a different filter or try
out a different filter chain.
Okay.
So...
What's the idea here?
Well, you have your input geometry.
I've made some space there.
The texture coordinates, positions,
and your indices,
they don't have to change, of course.
It's just the texture that
you're going to modify.
So we move it over, prepare some space,
create a new texture for
the text cords to reference,
and then we apply a Core Image filter
between the original texture
and the filtered texture.
Now the great thing about this
is if you keep this set up,
you could modify that original texture,
such as changing a frame
in a frame-based animation,
and at that point,
filter again to get the filtered texture,
so you have this kind of beautiful
amortized cost of saying,
"I can apply this expensive filter chain,
Gaussian Blur, which is a multi-pass,
to my filtered texture."
And you really only have to do
that when the content changes.
And everything else stays the same,
so you just render it out.
Okay,
so the workflow is the same as before,
just in a slightly different order.
So you create the
CI image using a texture,
the original texture.
You create the CI filter
that you intend to use,
Gaussian Blur in the case
of the game and the trees.
And then you create a texture FBO to
render this filtered texture out to.
And that is the new texture
that you're going to use.
You create a CI context as before,
or you might already have one
around from your previous trials.
And then you target the new texture
by binding that frame buffer when
you render with the CI context.
So I've just shown you here a
small example of the differences.
So really all the same as before,
except you just bind the texture
frame buffer that you're targeting
and you do your CI context.
Draw Image in Rect from Rect using
the output image of the filter.
And there you will have your new
texture that you can then use.
So there's some great features
in Core Image for your games.
You have 93 combineable filters.
They're all made for you.
Please don't try to make your
own Gaussian Blur filter.
Please save yourself the time.
It's really not that fun.
So if you combine these and change,
you can get billions
of different effects,
and it's really fun to play with.
And because in iOS 6 now,
you have rendered to and
from textures as well,
you can also get high
performance to add to your game.
And of course, as we've shown you,
there are some properties and
options that you can set so that
you can select between quality or
performance to suit your application.
Okay, so I'm going to hand
you back over to David.
Thank you so much, Jacques.
It's fun working on
these filters at Apple,
but it's even more terrific to
actually see them being applied to
really kind of beautiful-looking
content in a real live game.
It's fun to see.
Really appreciate his
team's help on that.
Few things we want to
just tip you off about.
We have a session that was preceded
this session that you might want
to look for on the archives.
It was getting started in
Core Image if you want to get all
the fundamentals of Core Image.
Also, there's another session you
might want to check out as well,
which is Advances in OpenGL and GL ES,
which is another good session
to look at for tips and tricks
with OpenGL programming.
That's all.
Thank you all again for coming,
and look forward to
talking with you again.